Add mentions to MongoDB in the docs (#1)
GromNaN/laravel-docs: mongodb.md

Before using MongoDB with Laravel, we recommend installing and using the [mongodb/laravel-mongodb](https://packagist.org/packages/mongodb/laravel-mongodb) package via Composer. While MongoDB is natively supported by PHP through the MongoDB driver, the [Laravel MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/) package provide a rich integration with Eloquent and other Laravel features.

```shell
composer require mongodb/laravel-mongodb
```

## Installation

#### Starting a MongoDB server

The MongoDB Community Server can be used to create a Laravel application. It is available for installation in Windows, macOS, Linux, or as Docker container. Read how to [Install MongoDB Community Edition](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/).

The connection string for the MongoDB server can be set in the `.env` file:

```
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017
MONGODB_DATABASE=laravel_app
```

For hosting MongoDB in the cloud, consider using [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas).

> To access a MongoDB Atlas cluster locally from you application, you will need to [add your own IP address in the cluster's network settings](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/add-ip-address-to-list/) to the project's IP Access List.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access a MongoDB Atlas cluster locally from your application, you will need to [add your own IP address in the cluster's network settings](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security/add-ip-address-to-list/) to the project's IP Access List.
```

# MongoDB

> TODO add summary and links to sections

Reviewer: Could we also add a link to our [quick start](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/quick-start/), perhaps towards the end of the doc?

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introduction

[MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) is an open-source, NoSQL database that uses a flexible, JSON-like structure to store data. It supports a wide variety of data types, including documents, arrays, embedded documents, and binary data.

> 

Author: Added.

Before using MongoDB with Laravel, we recommend installing and using the [mongodb/laravel-mongodb](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/) package via Composer. While MongoDB is natively supported by PHP through the MongoDB driver, the Laravel MongoDB package provide a deep integration with Eloquent and other Laravel features.

```shell
composer require mongodb/laravel-mongodb:^5
```

## Installation

#### Starting a MongoDB server

The MongoDB Community Server can be used to create a Laravel application, in can
be installed on Windows, macOS, Linux, or in a Docker container. Read
how to [install MongoDB Community Server](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/).

The connection string for the MongoDB server can be set in the `.env` file:

```
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017
MONGODB_DATABASE=laravel_app
```

For hosting MongoDB in the cloud, consider using [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas).

> To access a MongoDB Atlas cluster locally from you application, you need to [allow your own IP address in the cluster's network settings](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/data-federation/tutorial/add-ip-address/).

Reviewer 2: @bisht2050: Good catch!

The connection string for MongoDB Atlas can be set in the `.env` file:

```
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@<cluster>.mongodb.net/<dbname>?retryWrites=true&w=majority
MONGODB_DATABASE=laravel_app
```

#### MongoDB Driver

The MongoDB PHP driver requires the `ext-mongodb` PHP extension. The extension can be installed using PECL:

```shell
pecl install mongodb
```

Read the [MongoDB PHP driver installation instructions](https://www.php.net/manual/en/mongodb.installation.php) for more information.

#### Install the Laravel MongoDB package

The Laravel MongoDB package can be installed via Composer:

```shell
composer require mongodb/laravel-mongodb
```

> This installation will fail if the `ext-mongodb` PHP extension is not installed.

Reviewer 2: Optionally add a note to remind users that the CLI environment may have a separate `php.ini` config from the web SAPI.

<a name="configuration"></a>
## Configuration

You may configure your MongoDB connection via the `config/database.php` configuration file.
Within this file, you can add a `mongodb` connection using the `mongodb` driver:

```php
'connections' => [
    'mongodb' => [
        'driver' => 'mongodb',
        'dsn' => env('MONGODB_URI', 'mongodb://localhost:27017'),
        'database' => env('MONGODB_DATABASE', 'laravel_app'),
    ],
],
```

Once your configuration is complete, you can use the `mongodb` connection in your application:

> - [Using Eloquent](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/eloquent-models/), models can be stored in MongoDB collections. In addition to the standard Eloquent features, the Laravel MongoDB package provides additional features such as embedded relationships. Using raw SQL queries is not supported obviously, as MongoDB is a NoSQL database.

Reviewer 2: > Using raw SQL queries is not supported obviously, as MongoDB is a NoSQL database.

This should be rewritten. At the very least, we should obvious biased language like "obviously". Consider mentioning that SQL queries are unsupported but there is an API to execute raw MongoDB queries. Otherwise, I think this would be OK to omit entirely, as you're already introducing MongoDB as a NoSQL database in the earlier introduction.

- [Write complex queries](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/query-builder/) using the query builder.

> - [Using the Cache](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/cache/), the `mongodb` cache driver is optimized to use MongoDB features such as TTL indexes to automatically clear expired cache entries.

Reviewer 2: Should "Cache" be capitalized here? I see you're also capitalizing "Session" and "Queue" below.

Reviewer 2: Feel free to resolve, as "Cache" only appears in the link text.

Author: I kept it consistent with other titles.

> - Using the Session with the `cache` session driver.

Reviewer 2: Does this need more elaboration? I assume Laravel's Session component can be configured to use whatever is already configured for `cache`, so you'd first need to configure the `mongodb` cache driver. Maybe add a note about this relying on you configuring the `mongodb` cache driver.

Per your addition to the Session docs, I see that both a `mongodb` and `cache` driver are supported, with a MongoDB-backed `cache` preferred. Does that bear mentioning here?

- [Using the Queue](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/queues/) with the `mongodb` queue driver.

> - [Storing files in GridFS](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/gridfs/), thanks to an integration of the  [GridFS Adapter for Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/adapter/gridfs/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Storing files in GridFS](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/gridfs/), by way of the [GridFS Adapter for Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/adapter/gridfs/).
```

"thanks to" sounds more appropriate for a blog post, but I think docs should be more impersonal. Defer to you and @bisht2050, though.

Reviewer: I agree with Jeremy.

> - And third party packages using a Database connection can be used with MongoDB, please [raise an issue](https://github.com/mongodb/laravel-mongodb/issues/new/choose) for unsupported packages you would like to use.

Reviewer 2: This seems like it should be a paragraph instead of a trailing bullet. Also, should "Database" be capitalized?

On a separate note, does this call to action belong in Laravel's docs? It seems like something we'd confine to our own hosted docs, assuming the main point of this PR is to just to raise awareness of the integration.

Reviewer: Yes, we can omit the "raise issue here.." part.

- [Using Eloquent](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/eloquent-models/), models can be stored in MongoDB collections. In addition to the standard Eloquent features, the Laravel MongoDB package provides additional features such as embedded relationships. The package also provides direct access to the MongoDB driver, which can be used to execute operations such as raw queries and aggregation pipelines.
- [Write complex queries](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/query-builder/) using the query builder.
- [Using the Cache](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/cache/), the `mongodb` cache driver is optimized to use MongoDB features such as TTL indexes to automatically clear expired cache entries.
- Using the Session with Laravel's `cache` and the `mongodb` cache driver. 
- [Using the Queue](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/queues/) with the `mongodb` queue driver.
- [Storing files in GridFS](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/gridfs/), by way of the [GridFS Adapter for Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/adapter/gridfs/).

> - Most third party packages using a database connection or Eloquent can be used with MongoDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Most third party packages using a database connection or Eloquent can be used with MongoDB.

Refer to the [**Quick Start**](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/quick-start/) guide to connect a Laravel application to MongoDB, and perform read/write operations on the data.
```

# MongoDB

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Starting a MongoDB server](#starting-a-mongodb-server)
    - [MongoDB Driver](#mongodb-driver)
    - [Install the Laravel MongoDB package](#install-the-laravel-mongodb-package)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Features](#features)

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introduction

> [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/resources/products/fundamentals/why-use-mongodb) is one of the most popular NoSQL document-oriented database, used for its high write load (useful for analytics or IoT) and high availability (easy to set replica sets with automatic failover). It can also shard the database easily for horizontal scalability and has a powerful query language for doing aggregation, text search or geospatial queries. Instead of storing data in tables of rows or columns like SQL databases, each record in a MongoDB database is a document described in BSON, a binary representation of the data. Applications can then retrieve this information in a JSON format. It supports a wide variety of data types, including documents, arrays, embedded documents, and binary data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/resources/products/fundamentals/why-use-mongodb) is one of the most popular NoSQL document-oriented database, used for its high write load (useful for analytics or IoT) and high availability (easy to set replica sets with automatic failover). It can also shard the database for horizontal scalability and has a powerful query language for doing aggregation, text search, or geospatial queries. Instead of storing data in tables of rows and columns like SQL databases, each record in a MongoDB database is a BSON document. BSON is a JSON-like binary representation and supports a wide variety of data types, including documents, arrays, embedded documents, and binary data.
```

Removing "easily" as it's a subjective term better suited to marketing content than documentation. I left "powerful" for the query language, though.

Removing language about applications returning BSON in a "JSON format".

Rephrased the last sentence a bit.

```php
'connections' => [
    'mongodb' => [
        'driver' => 'mongodb',
        'dsn' => env('MONGODB_URI', 'mongodb://localhost:27017'),
        'database' => env('MONGODB_DATABASE', 'laravel_app'),
    ],
],
```

<a name="features"></a>
## Features

Once your configuration is complete, you can use the `mongodb` connection in your application:

- [Using Eloquent](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/eloquent-models/), models can be stored in MongoDB collections. In addition to the standard Eloquent features, the Laravel MongoDB package provides additional features such as embedded relationships. The package also provides direct access to the MongoDB driver, which can be used to execute operations such as raw queries and aggregation pipelines.
- [Write complex queries](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/query-builder/) using the query builder.
- [Using the Cache](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/cache/), the `mongodb` cache driver is optimized to use MongoDB features such as TTL indexes to automatically clear expired cache entries.

> - Using the Session with Laravel's `cache` and the `mongodb` cache driver. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Using the Session with Laravel's `cache` or the `mongodb` cache driver.
```

I assume these are mutually exclusive. You either use Laravel's `cache` driver (which may be configured to use the `mongodb` database driver) or explicitly use the integration's `mongodb` cache driver. If so, "or" makes more sense. Disregard if I'm mistaken here.

Once your configuration is complete, you can use the `mongodb` connection in your application:

> - [Using Eloquent](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/eloquent-models/), models can be stored in MongoDB collections. In addition to the standard Eloquent features, the Laravel MongoDB package provides additional features such as embedded relationships. Raw SQL queries is not supported but advanced MongoDB queries can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Using Eloquent](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/eloquent-models/), models can be stored in MongoDB collections. In addition to the standard Eloquent features, the Laravel MongoDB package provides additional features such as embedded relationships. Raw SQL queries are not supported but advanced MongoDB queries can be used.
```

Fixing subject/verb agreement.

"advanced MongoDB queries can be used" sounds a bit vague. Would it be clearer to say:

> The package also provides direct access to the MongoDB driver, which can be used to execute operations such as raw queries and aggregation pipelines. This is analogous to Eloquent's API for executing raw SQL queries (not supported by MongoDB).

Maybe just remove the second sentence, as I think any mention of "raw SQL queries" is likely to cause more confusion than anything.

- [Write complex queries](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/query-builder/) using the query builder.

> - [Using the Cache](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/cache/), the `mongodb` Cache driver is optimized to use MongoDB features such as TTL indexes to automatically clear expired cache entries.

Reviewer 2: Not sure why "Cache" is capitalized here, but lowercase in the subsequent bullet.

Decide if you're referring to a Laravel component by name (capitalized proper noun in that case) or not. I think in this context, lowercase makes more sense, as in the bullet below.

For "Using the <Component>" phrases, I read that as a component name for capitalization makes sense.

- Using the Session with Laravel's `cache` and the `mongodb` cache driver. 
- [Using the Queue](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/queues/) with the `mongodb` queue driver.
- [Storing files in GridFS](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/php/laravel-mongodb/current/gridfs/), by way of the [GridFS Adapter for Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/docs/adapter/gridfs/).

> - And third party packages using a database connection can be used with MongoDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Third party packages using a database connection can be used with MongoDB.
```

I don't think we need "And" for a final bullet. Consider adding "Most", though. I imagine there's some concern in misleading users to think that any and all third party packages will work out of the box with a `mongodb` database connection.
